add Web Platform January post (#7281)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/web-platform-01-2022/index.md

---
layout: post
title: "New to the web platform in January"
subhead: >

>   In this post discover some of the interesting features that have landed in stable and beta web browsers during January 2022. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Discover some of the interesting features that have landed in stable and beta web browsers during January 2022. 
```

description: >

>   In this post discover some of the interesting features that have landed in stable and beta web browsers during January 2022.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Discover some of the interesting features that have landed in stable and beta web browsers during January 2022.
```

date: 2022-02-01
hero: image/kheDArv5csY6rvQUJDbWRscckLr1/8j6GZWWy9wpuQfTOkrJy.png
alt: Balloons launching.
authors:
  - rachelandrew
tags:
  - blog
---

## Stable browser releases

> In January Chrome 97, and Firefox 96 became stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In January, Chrome 97 and Firefox 96 became stable.
```

> Firefox 96 ships the color function [`hwb()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb()). This function expresses a color by hue, lightness, and blackness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firefox 96 shipped the color function [`hwb()`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/color_value/hwb()). This function expresses a color by hue, whiteness, and blackness.
```

Reviewer: Updates for tense and function notation

{% BrowserCompat 'css.types.color.hwb' %}

> Also in Firefox 96 is the CSS [`color-scheme`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/color-scheme) property. This property gives you a way to indicate the color schemes an element can be rendered in. For example, to indicate that `.widget` can be rendered in the operating system’s light or dark modes, use the following CSS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also in Firefox 96 is the CSS [`color-scheme`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/color-scheme) property. This property gives you a way to indicate the color schemes an element can be rendered in. For example, to indicate that `.widget` can be rendered in the operating system's light or dark modes, use the following CSS.
```

Reviewer: Fix for [straight quotation marks](https://developers.google.com/style/quotation-marks#straight-and-curly-quotation-marks)

Author: that's weird, wonder why the linter didn't catch it. Normally it yells if it finds one.

```css
.widget {
  color-scheme: light dark;
}
```

> With color-scheme landing in Firefox, this means the property is available in Chrome, Firefox, and Safari.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `color-scheme` landing in Firefox, the property is also available in Chrome, Firefox, and Safari.
```

Author: the point of this is that the feature is now available in all evergreen browsers, "is also" doesn't make sense here as we repeat Firefox.

{% BrowserCompat 'css.properties.color-scheme' %}

## Beta browser releases

> Beta browser versions give you a preview of things that will be in the next stable version of the browser. It’s a great time to test new features, or removals, that could impact your site before the world gets that release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beta browser versions give you a preview of things that will be in the next stable version of the browser. It's a great time to test new features, or removals, that could impact your site before the world gets that release.
```

Reviewer: Fix for [straight quotation marks](https://developers.google.com/style/quotation-marks#straight-and-curly-quotation-marks)

> Betas landing in January were [Chrome 98](https://blog.chromium.org/2022/01/chrome-98-beta-color-gradient-vector.html), [Firefox 97](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/97.0beta/releasenotes/), and Safari 15.4 Beta 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The betas for January were [Chrome 98](https://blog.chromium.org/2022/01/chrome-98-beta-color-gradient-vector.html), [Firefox 97](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/97.0beta/releasenotes/), and Safari 15.4 Beta 1.
```

Chrome 98 supports COLRv1 color gradient vector fonts as an additional new font format. A color font contains glyphs with multiple colors in them, which can be for example an emoji or a country flag or a multi-colored letter.

Read more about this new font format in [COLRv1 Color Gradient Vector Fonts in Chrome 98](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/colrv1-fonts/).

> Also included is the [structuredClone()](/structured-clone/) method for making deep copies of objects, and the CSS media queries `dynamic-range` and `video-dynamic-range`. There’s lots more that you can find by reading the [Chrome 98 beta post](https://blog.chromium.org/2022/01/chrome-98-beta-color-gradient-vector.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also included is the [structuredClone()](/structured-clone/) method for making deep copies of objects, and the CSS media queries `dynamic-range` and `video-dynamic-range`. Find more features to test in the [Chrome 98 Beta post](https://blog.chromium.org/2022/01/chrome-98-beta-color-gradient-vector.html).
```

> [Chrome 98 DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-98/) brings you a whole raft of new features including the new [Full Accessibility Tree](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/full-accessibility-tree/).

Author: ```suggestion
[Chrome 98 DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-98/) brings you a whole collection of new features including the new [Full Accessibility Tree](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/full-accessibility-tree/).
```

> [Chrome 98 DevTools](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/new-in-devtools-98/) brings you a whole raft of new features including the new [Full Accessibility Tree](https://developer.chrome.com/blog/full-accessibility-tree/).

Reviewer: Is "a whole raft" a common UK phrase? I'm not familiar with it. It would probably be more localization-friendly to update to "several new features", but I also recognize this is a blog post which can benefit from specific voices.

Author: I don't think it's an uncommon phrase, but maybe it is, I'll change it!

> Firefox 97 beta supports the `cap` and `ic` units for [`length`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/length), and also implements the [`scrollbar-gutter`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/scrollbar-gutter) property. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firefox 97 Beta supports the `cap` and `ic` units for [`length`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/length), and also implements the [`scrollbar-gutter`](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/scrollbar-gutter) property. 
```

Reviewer: When "Beta" is associated directly with the browser version, it should be capitalized per all of the style guides. When "beta" is alone or referencing features generally, it should be lowercase.

> There is a whole raft of CSS included in Safari 15.4 Beta. Features include implementation of the [::backdrop](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/::backdrop) pseudo-element, [::focus-visible](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible) pseudo-class, the [accent-color](/accent-color/) property, and CSS Containment with the [contain](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/contain) property. This beta also includes the HTML [&lt;dialog&gt;](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog) element, the `lazy` attribute on images to enable [lazy-loading](/browser-level-image-lazy-loading/), plus support for Web App Manifest icons.

Author: ```suggestion
There is a whole collection of good things included in Safari 15.4 Beta. Features include implementation of the [::backdrop](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/::backdrop) pseudo-element, [::focus-visible](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible) pseudo-class, the [accent-color](/accent-color/) property, and CSS Containment with the [contain](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/contain) property. This beta also includes the HTML [&lt;dialog&gt;](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog) element, the `lazy` attribute on images to enable [lazy-loading](/browser-level-image-lazy-loading/), plus support for Web App Manifest icons.
```

> There is a whole raft of CSS included in Safari 15.4 Beta, features include implementation of the [::backdrop](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/::backdrop) pseudo-element, [::focus-visible](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible) pseudo-class, the [accent-color](/accent-color/) property, and CSS Containment with the [contain](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/contain) property. This beta also includes the HTML [&lt;dialog&gt;](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog) element, the `lazy` attribute on images to enable [lazy-loading](/browser-level-image-lazy-loading/), plus support for Web App Manifest icons.

Author: ```suggestion
There is a whole raft of CSS included in Safari 15.4 Beta. Features include implementation of the [::backdrop](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/::backdrop) pseudo-element, [::focus-visible](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/:focus-visible) pseudo-class, the [accent-color](/accent-color/) property, and CSS Containment with the [contain](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/CSS/contain) property. This beta also includes the HTML [&lt;dialog&gt;](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/HTML/Element/dialog) element, the `lazy` attribute on images to enable [lazy-loading](/browser-level-image-lazy-loading/), plus support for Web App Manifest icons.
```
